samples: bluetooth: fast_pair: locator_tag: HW crypto MCUboot for nRF54L (#21106)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/fast_pair/locator_tag/README.rst

| SUIT         | overwrite only mode            | * ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp``                                  |
+--------------+--------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Signature algorithm
-------------------

> Each board target, that is supported by this sample, sets a specific signature algorithm for its DFU functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each board target that is supported by this sample, sets a specific signature algorithm for its DFU functionality.
```

> A signature algorithm generates a key pair that is used to sign the application image (the private key) and to verify the application image by the bootloader (the public key).

Author: Thanks, I did not have a sentence at L189 and now it really suggests that the build system does it (of course, I meant here the `imgtool` generation step).

I will align it as you suggested

> The signature algorithm determines type of the key pair that is used to sign the application image (the private key) and to verify the application image by the bootloader (the public key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signature algorithm determines the type of the key pair that is used to sign the application image (the private key) and to verify the application image by the bootloader (the public key).
```

> The signature algorithm determines the type of the key pair that is used to sign the application image (the private key) and to verify the application image by the bootloader (the public key).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The signature algorithm determines the type of the key pair that is used to automatically sign the application image by the |NCS| build system (the private key) and to verify the application image by the bootloader (the public key).
```

Author: fixed

+================================+===================================================================+===========================+
| RSA-2048                       | * ``nrf52dk/nrf52832`` (only ``release`` configuration)           | Bootloader partition      |
|                                | * ``nrf52833dk/nrf52833`` (only ``release`` configuration)        |                           |
|                                | * ``nrf52840dk/nrf52840``                                         |                           |
|                                | * ``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp``                                    |                           |
|                                | * ``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp/ns``                                 |                           |
|                                | * ``thingy53/nrf5340/cpuapp``                                     |                           |
|                                | * ``thingy53/nrf5340/cpuapp/ns``                                  |                           |
+--------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+

> | ED25519                        | * ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp`` (only ``release`` configuration) | Key Management Unit (KMU) |

Reviewer 2: `pure ED25519`

Author: pure / non-pure is the way in which the signature is calculated. The "pure" keyword does not carry any meaning in the cryptographic space, and we call it like this because we chose to name the corresponding Kconfig option - BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_PURE - with the pure suffix.

I can add a column to the table to describe it

The algorithm is still called ED22519

Reviewer 2: `pure / non-pure is the way in which the signature is calculated` -> so it adds some extra information (IIRC `pure` variant is safer too).

I would not introduce an additional column here. Maybe we could use e.g. `ED25519 (pure)` then

Author: Pure does not mean anything. How can the user infer from the "pure" keyword that the signature is calculated over the whole image? I will add another column

|                                | * ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``                                  |                           |
|                                | * ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``                                  |                           |
+--------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+

.. note::
   The SUIT DFU integration in this sample does not support the secure boot with the signature verification.

>    The affected build targets are not listed in the table above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The affected board targets are not listed in the table above.
```

Each supported build target has the signature key file (the ``SB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE`` Kconfig option) defined in the :file:`sysbuild/configuration` directory that is part of the sample directory.

> The signature key file is unique per each build target and can be found in the :file:`<build_target>` subdirectory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signature key file is unique for each board target and is located in the :file:`<build_target>` subdirectory.
```

> For example, the signature key file for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` build target is located in the :file:`sysbuild/configuration/nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp` subdirectory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the signature key file for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target is located in the :file:`sysbuild/configuration/nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp` subdirectory.
```

> .. note::

Reviewer: No, do not use warning, because of the reason mentioned in https://nordicsemi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TECHDOC/pages/120306494/Style+and+usage+guide. Instead, you can use important or caution.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: Then we could use `important`/`caution` here I think

>    The signature private keys defined by the sample are publicly available and intended for the demonstration purposes only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The signature private keys defined by the sample are publicly available and intended for demonstration purposes only.
```

   west build -b *board_target* -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=release

> DFU build with the key storage in KMU

Reviewer 2: Can we refer to nRF54L in section name (as it's the only supported SoC Series now)? That might simplify navigation for customers using other SoC family

Reviewer 2: Or maybe we could make `The build targets based on the nRF54L SoC Series are currently the only targets that support the KMU-based key storage.` as a note to highlight it

=====================================

The MCUboot-based targets that enable the ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU`` Kconfig option use the Key Management Unit (KMU) hardware peripheral to store the public key that is used by the bootloader to verify the application image.

> The build targets based on the nRF54L SoC Series are currently the only targets that support the KMU-based key storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The board targets based on the nRF54L SoC Series are currently the only targets that support the KMU-based key storage.
```

Using KMU requires the provisioning operation of the public key to be performed manually.

> Before performing the provisioning operation, you need to ensure that your build target is fully erased:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before performing the provisioning operation, you need to ensure that your board target is fully erased:
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   nrfutil device erase --all

> Assuming that your currently working directory points to this sample directory, you can perform the provisioning operation as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that your current working directory points to this sample directory, you can perform the provisioning operation as follows:
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west ncs-provision upload -s <soc> -k sysbuild/configuration/<build_target>/boot_signature_key_file_<algorithm>.pem --keyname UROT_PUBKEY

> The ``<soc>`` placeholder is the SoC name used in your build target (for example, ``nrf54l15``), the ``<build_target>`` placeholder is your build target name (for example, ``nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp``), and ``<algorithm>`` is the algorithm used to generate the application image key pair (for example, ``ed25519``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``<soc>`` placeholder is the SoC name used in your board target (for example, ``nrf54l15``).
* The ``<build_target>`` placeholder is your board target name (for example, ``nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp``).
* ``<algorithm>`` is the algorithm used to generate the application image key pair (for example, ``ed25519``).
```
Maybe you should use also <board_target> for the name, both in the command example and in the explanation.

Author: I would keep <algorithm> placehold to keep this information general enough so that it is still correct when we add support for other signature algorithms. KMU is also available in the nRF53 so it may as well be used in the MCUboot bootloader pretty soon

Reviewer 2: I would not insist as it's not an error

> The examplary command for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` build target and the demonstration key file looks as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examplary command for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target and the demonstration key file is as follows:
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west ncs-provision upload -s nrf54l15 -k sysbuild/configuration/nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp/boot_signature_key_file_ed25519.pem --keyname UROT_PUBKEY

> See the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag_dfu` section of this sample documentation for the details regarding the supported signature algorithms, public key storage location and the signature key file.

Reviewer 2: Consider also informing that the application update image is still automatically signed by the NCS build system

> See the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag_dfu` section of this sample documentation for the details regarding the supported signature algorithms, public key storage location and the signature key file.

Author: but you need to know what targets support the KMU in their DFU solution

> See the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu` documentation for further details regarding the KMU provisioning process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu` for further details regarding the KMU provisioning process.
```

The MCUboot-based targets that enable the ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU`` Kconfig option use the Key Management Unit (KMU) hardware peripheral to store the public key that is used by the bootloader to verify the application image.

.. note::
   The board targets based on the nRF54L SoC Series are currently the only targets that support the KMU-based key storage.
   See the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag_dfu` section of this sample documentation for the details regarding the supported signature algorithms, public key storage location and the signature key file.

Using KMU requires the provisioning operation of the public key to be performed manually.
Before performing the provisioning operation, you need to ensure that your board target is fully erased:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   nrfutil device erase --all

Assuming that your current working directory points to this sample directory, you can perform the provisioning operation as follows:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west ncs-provision upload -s <soc> -k sysbuild/configuration/<board_target>/boot_signature_key_file_<algorithm>.pem --keyname UROT_PUBKEY

> The ``<soc>`` placeholder is the SoC name used in your board target (for example, ``nrf54l15``), the ``<board_target>`` placeholder is your board target name (for example, ``nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp``), and ``<algorithm>`` is the algorithm used to generate the application image key pair (for example, ``ed25519``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``<soc>`` placeholder is the SoC name used in your board target (for example, ``nrf54l15``).
* The ``<board_target>`` placeholder is your board target name (for example, ``nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp``).
* ``<algorithm>`` is the algorithm used to generate the application image key pair (for example, ``ed25519``).
```
